{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Diabetes is a disease in which your blood glucose, or {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://medlineplus.gov/bloodsugar.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 blood sugar}}, levels are too high. Glucose comes from the foods you eat. Insulin is a hormone that helps the glucose get into your cells to give them energy. With {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://medlineplus.gov/diabetestype1.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 type 1 diabetes}}, your body does not make insulin. With {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://medlineplus.gov/diabetestype2.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 type 2 diabetes}}, the more common type, your body does not make or use insulin well. Without enough insulin, the glucose stays in your blood. You can also have {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://medlineplus.gov/prediabetes.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 prediabetes}}. This means that your blood sugar is higher than normal but not high enough to be called diabetes. Having prediabetes puts you at a higher risk of getting type 2 diabetes.\
Over time, having too much glucose in your blood can cause {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://medlineplus.gov/diabetescomplications.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 serious problems}}. It can damage your {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://medlineplus.gov/diabeticeyeproblems.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 eyes}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://medlineplus.gov/diabetickidneyproblems.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 kidneys}}, and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://medlineplus.gov/diabeticnerveproblems.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 nerves}}. Diabetes can also cause {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://medlineplus.gov/diabeticheartdisease.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 heart disease}}, stroke and even the need to remove a limb. Pregnant women can also get diabetes, called {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://medlineplus.gov/diabetesandpregnancy.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 gestational diabetes}}.\
Blood tests can show if you have diabetes. One type of test, the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://medlineplus.gov/a1c.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 A1C}}, can also check on how you are managing your diabetes. Exercise, weight control and sticking to your {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://medlineplus.gov/diabeticdiet.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 meal plan}} can help control your diabetes. You should also monitor your blood glucose level and take {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://medlineplus.gov/diabetesmedicines.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 medicine}} if prescribed. \
}