{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc1\levelnfcn1\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{upper-roman\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc1\levelnfcn1\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{upper-roman\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc1\levelnfcn1\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{upper-roman\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc1\levelnfcn1\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{upper-roman\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc1\levelnfcn1\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{upper-roman\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc1\levelnfcn1\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{upper-roman\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc1\levelnfcn1\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{upper-roman\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc1\levelnfcn1\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{upper-roman\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid701\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid8}
{\list\listtemplateid9\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc1\levelnfcn1\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{upper-roman\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid801\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid9}
{\list\listtemplateid10\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc1\levelnfcn1\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{upper-roman\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid901\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid10}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid9\listoverridecount0\ls9}{\listoverride\listid10\listoverridecount0\ls10}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Submitted by:\
Mercy Jane H. Obido\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li3600\fi720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Submitted to:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Professor Marjorie Almario\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \page \pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Introduction:\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Napoleon Bonaparte, a Corsican by birth, one of the most brilliant individuals in history, Napoleon Bonaparte was a masterful soldier, and an excellent administrator. A product of the eighteenth century and was molded by ideas of the Enlightenment, wars and revolution at that time.\
This book \'93Napoleonic Revolution\'94 is about Napoleon who made a dramatic change in History specifically in France and Europe in a short space of time. A book about who this Napoleon is, what is in him that he was able to affect the history of mankind and how did he did these drastic changes. \
The book is written in first person point of view and in scholarly manner since it is a history book. The author seems very expert about the subject. The author of the book is Robert B. Holtman. He is a professor of History at Louisiana State University and received his doctorate from the University of Wisconsin. He can be considered as expert in this field and in this topic aside from his educational attainment because he has already written a lot of books related to this subject. Some are \'93The use of Propaganda\'94, \'93Napoleonic Propaganda\'94, and \'93The Era of the French Revolution\'94, and co-authored the book \'93The Correspondence of Catherine the Great with Germans on Current Political Affairs\'94. \
Robert B. Holtman emphasizes Napoleon's role as a revolutionary innovator whose influence touched nearly every aspect of European political and social life and has extended even to our own times.\'a0He discusses the whole aspect of Napoleon\'92s regime. From how does the Eighteenth century molded Napoleon\'92s whole being, him being a military genius, as an administrator, as an economist, as a catalyst of nationalism, and his legacy.\
His administration focuses mainly on centralization to seize more control of every aspect of the government. From institutions and organizations like the schools, economy, church, media, military and trade.\
The book is like a pocket book that has 225 pages with 10 short chapters. Contains European maps on 1789 the start of Napoleonic Era, 1812 the height of napoleon\'92s power with corresponding legend of his Allies, countries under his control and his enemies, and 1815 European map after the Congress of Vienna. It also has a chart of dates of Napoleon\'92s fights with his major enemies, chart of the organization of the Imperial University, and chart of the French government under the constitution of the year VIII. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \page \
\pard\pardeftab720\li1080\fi-720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 I.	The Heritage of The Eighteenth Century\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The first chapter talks about how the eighteenth century molded Napoleon Bonaparte. Events like rivalry of France and Great Britain, the Enlightenment, and the French Revolution became Napoleon\'92s background that made the time right for him. \
The enlightenment had very special features: a belief in natural law, a belief in reason so strong that whole century is sometimes called the \'93The Age of Reason\'94; a belief that the natural laws could be discovered through the use of reason; a belief that accompanying these natural laws were natural rights of man; a belief that through the use of reason and natural law of man could obtain a paradise on earth in the not-too-distant future; and belief in humanitarianism, that men were their brother\'92s keepers.\
The revolutionaries considered the Catholic Church as supernatural religion and unreasonable that is why they attacked the church that resulted to confiscation of the church lands, abolished monasteries, made the clergy as civil servants and the adoption of revolutionary calendar in an attempt to obtain more rational calendar than Gregorian. They applied the metric system and September 22 is the starting point of the calendar with 12 months (Vendemiaire, Brumaire, Frimaire, Nivose, Pluviose, Ventose, Germinal, Floreal, Praiarial, Messidor, Thermidor, and Fructidor), 30 days and each month is devided into 10 days and the days were designated by Roman numerals. This revolutionary calendar remains until 1806. \
Another revolutionary political bequest was the concept of written constitution. Each of the first three Revolutionary governments had a unicameral legislature because the \'93philosophes\'94, the publicist of the enlightenment, believed in popular sovereignty and thought a one-house legislature was the best way to express it. \
France at that time being strong-politically, militarily, and economically the strongest country in the continent-was significant for Napoleon\'92s career. This, then, was the background which made the time right for a Napoleon-the heritage of thought and events that start him on his way to greatness.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \page \
\pard\pardeftab720\li1080\fi-720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 II.	The Career of Napoleon Bonaparte\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The defeats suffered by France in the war of the second coalition and the inability of the Directory to handle domestic problems satisfactorily do much to explain why the time was ripe for an overthrow of the government. Most Frenchmen wanted a government which would preserve the revolutionary heritage and provide a final victory in Europe and had become embittered about the revolution and wanted it ended. Bonaparte\'92s accession to power did bring an end to a decade of revolution. They recognized that for a successful coup d\'92\'e9tat they needed a military man.\
The drafter of the constitution proposed to have three consuls, one for foreign affairs, second for domestic affairs and a ceremonial figurehead who was to be Bonaparte. Bonaparte had other plans: he pushed through a constitution giving almost all power t a first Consul, chosen for ten years, and that would be himself. \
Napoleon was a son of a poor Corsican noble. He was able to study at French military schools and at Paris. He became lieutenant at the age of sixteen and eventually became a statesman.  \
The first time Napoleon Bonaparte had entered the spotlight of French revolutionary history was when he was given the charge of the artillery. His plan was not unique but he did have the ability and foresight to put it into effect. He was given the command of Army of Italy in the war of the First Coalition though it was considered minor; he made it the most important of the campaign. The final victory of France over the coalition resulted in large measure from his brilliant strategy and tactics. Without authorization he brought the war and coalition to an end by signing with Austria the Treaty of Campoformio in 1797. Then lead an expedition against Egypt on 1798, as a first step towards British India. The most important long-range result of the expedition was achieved by the scientists and other learned men founded the science of Egyptology, which was based in large part on the Rosetta stone, discovered on this expedition and later revealing the secrets of Egyptian writing. He had a monopoly on the news reaching France from Egypt so he was able to able to create a false impression in France that he was consistently victorious in Egypt. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The consulate was the period of Napoleon\'92s most constructive achievement. He laid down the institutions-administrative, financial, legal, and religious-which were to form the framework of 19\super th\nosupersub  century France and thus considered as one of the most important periods of all French History.\
In 1802 he maneuvered successfully to be named \'93Consul for Life\'94 and two years later he proclaimed and crowned himself Emperor of French. He extended the control of France over European countries. He was also known as \'93Little Corporal\'94.\
\page \
\pard\pardeftab720\li1080\fi-720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 III.	 The Militarist and Map-changer\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 These two also became titles of Napoleon Bonaparte. Militarist because he was at war most of the time he was in power. His art in war is also popular today that a textbook about his strategy and tactics have been made. He became the model for generals in the American civil war. He was also the first to incorporate and apply all the principles devised by the military writers of the 18\super th\nosupersub  century.\
In here the four French theorists that influenced Bonaparte is discussed. First is Marshal Maurice de Saxe who advocated relentless pursuit of a defeated enemy to complete the victory won on the battlefield. Then General Pierre de Bourcet in which he learned about the use of artillery. Baron Joseph Du Teil laid him down the principles for mountain fighting. Last is Jacques de Guibert, the most advanced of these writers on military theory.  Guibert also prophesized Napoleon\'92s coming. He predicted a state akin to republican Rome, which would almost inevitably lead to the rise of a great genius who would first assume dictatorial powers and then a throne and completely reform the military and political system. \
Napoleon excelled in getting his men to the decisive place at the right time. He drove home the necessity of advance planning to achieve desired results. To Napoleon the aim of the tactical changes had been to gain greater mobility and maneuverability. \
The chapter showed how Napoleon changed the map because of his conquers. Because of his military skills he conquered most of Europe. It was not only Europe whose map Napoleon affected. Because of his economic strategy against Great Britain, the latter was forced to annex several colonies to create other markets.\
This chapter also includes a chart of Napoleons fights with his major enemies, dated from 1799 were he assumes power until 1815. His major enemies were Austria, England, Naples, Portugal, Prussia, Russia, Spain, Sweden, and Turkey.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\page \
\pard\pardeftab720\li1080\fi-720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 IV.	The Lawgiver\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 This chapter is about how Napoleon Bonaparte manipulated the legislature to create a constitution that will favor him and how he manipulated the law to rule everyone and submit to his will, how he became the dictator leaded to becoming the emperor and what are his powers during his reign. \
This chapter offers a chart of the French Government under the Constitution of the year III or 1799-1800. The chart includes the central government legislative process and local government electoral process.\
Napoleon centralized the government of France. From the consul to the mayor of a village holds together.  These enabled him to get things done and furnished him the desired men, money, and order.\
France desperately needed for its laws uniformity just like the revolution and the consulate had given its administration because at that time France was guided by many laws such as customary and common laws including 366 local codes of law. Napoleon enacts a new legal framework for France, known as the "Napoleonic Code." The civil code gave post-revolutionary France its first coherent set of laws concerning property, colonial affairs, the family, and individual rights. Accordingly this code became the greatest glory of Napoleon. This code impressed many governments that it was adapted by more than 35 states and the 19\super th\nosupersub  century became the great century of legal codification. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\page \
\pard\pardeftab720\li1080\fi-720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0\cf0 V.	The Financier and Economist\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 One of the first goals of Napoleon was balancing the budget because he realized that his government would not be able to remain in power despite military victories if he did not restore some order to the finances.  He did rely on tribute, but levied numerous new taxes which led to one of his outstanding fiscal achievements, the creation of a solid financial administration. His sugar-coating policy included substituting larger proportion of indirect for direct taxes so that the average Frenchman would not know just how much he was paying.\
Napoleon\'92s contribution to taxation policy lay in asserting the principle that taxes should be fair and stable in practice as well as in theory, and in initiating a general and complete assessment of real property. His conception of the importance of state credit and of the means of improving the government\'92s credit rating was one feature of his financial policy. The bank of France was another feature of Napoleon\'92s fiscal contributions. \
He also conducted reforms on Agriculture and commerce for which the most notable innovation in the field of commerce was the establishments of chambers of commerce in numerous towns and his most long-range contribution to this field was the improvement of transportation.  France had for the first time the Ministry of Manufacturers and Commerce and the first modern state to have a court for industry. The government tried to make use of the machinery more widespread, established technical schools.\
Napoleon favored capitalism by extending to other areas such revolutionary reforms as freedom of work, abolition of serfdom and feudal burdens, the suppression of internal customs and tolls, uniform weights and measures, and the possibility of converting land into movable property. He did much to foster French industry. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \page \
\pard\pardeftab720\li1080\fi-720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0\cf0 VI.	Relations with the Church\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Two elements in the religious situation were intolerable to Bonaparte. The existence of several different religious was the first-an impossible situation to a despot desiring a classical type of unity and centralization in the state. The other was the separation of Church and state.\
Napoleon undertook negotiations with the Pope for the purpose of arriving at a concordat or religious agreement. He adapted dual policy towards greater religious tolerance in accordance to the Declaration of the Rights of Man, subjecting the church to the state by suppressing the monasteries and by adopting a Civil Constitution of the Clergy, which made the church branch of the state. But there are conditions underlying these, first the Pope had to promise not to permit British goods to enter his ports in the Papal States, and the clergy had to take an oath of loyalty to the Constitution.  No papal bull or other communication could enter France without the approval of the government.\
The aim of Napoleon for doing this was for financial banking and to remove the church as a source of opposition to his regime. The clergy\'92s salary came from the government to increase government\'92s control over the church.\
From the concordat the Catholic Church also gained financial advantages and end to the schism in the church. The bishops gained the right of naming cures and priests.\
It was political rather than ecclesiastical affairs, however, which caused the greatest difficulty between Napoleon and Pius VII which led to the arrest of the Pope in 1808. Such treatment to the head of the Church heightened the opposition to Napoleon in deeply Catholic countries. It was a major factor in ferocity of the Spanish fighting. It also made a tremendous impression on Belgium and the Rhineland, where ultramontanism was strong.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\page \
\pard\pardeftab720\li1080\fi-720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0\cf0 VII.	The Educator\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Education in France today is distinguished from that in other major western democracies by its centralized control. Such centralization springs from the existence of an influential teaching corporation which was the creation of Napoleon Bonaparte.\
Both the National Assembly and the Convention decreed the organization of \'93Public Instructions common to all citizens, that part which is indispensable to all men being free\'94. The convention added on September 15, 1793, that instruction would be divided into three progressive ranks of primary, secondary, and higher education. This was the first time such principle had been introduced. Napoleon based his educational program on that of the Revolution. \
The constitution of the year III laid down the basic principles of such a national system of education: the national government would pay for the lodging of primary school teachers; national institute was given the responsibility for \'93collecting discoveries and perfecting the arts and sciences\'94.  Starting Year XII young men would not be enrolled as voters unless they were literate and could carry on a mechanical occupation.\
Bonaparte discovered that he should have personnel upon whom he could rely to administer his policies. He therefore personally devoted considerable attention to education after his military and diplomatic successes had made him all-powerful within France.\
He expected two things from the schools. First was the training of middle class boys to be civil and military leaders. Secondary education was for him most important and since he was a militarist, he wanted rigid military discipline in the secondary schools. Second he wanted the educational system to be uniform. This aim of him led to a neglect of primary education and neglect of education for girls. He thought the place of a woman was in the home. \
He distrusted free research in higher education. The theoretical and liberal aspects were to be eliminated. Free thinking anywhere was suspected. The government decided what books might be used. \
One of Napoleon\'92s contributions to education was the establishment of the Imperial University, a state teaching monopoly in order to offer a uniform and complete education; it encompassed all levels and types of instruction. Basic teachings of this school were fidelity to the Emperor, the imperial monarchy and the Napoleonic dynasty.  His reason for creating this was to get a body of properly trained and oriented teachers, and have a means of directing political and moral opinion.\
Hampered by a lack of resources, Napoleon was unable to erect the kind of educational structure he wanted. But his work in the field of education cannot be accounted a complete failure from his viewpoint. He achieved his immediate goal of having the schools prepare and train functionaries for the government and the hierarchy from classroom teacher to Minster of Education has given the French educational system stability and continuity. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\page \
\pard\pardeftab720\li1080\fi-720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\ls8\ilvl0\cf0 VIII.	 The Propagandist\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Prior to the French Revolution, public opinion was of relatively minor interest to rulers of continental European countries. The French revolution brought, and Napoleon Bonaparte continued in theory mass participation in government. Interested in propaganda as a means of self-aggrandizement as well as for furthering government policy, Napoleon kept the spotlight constantly on himself. \
The greatest importance of Napoleon\'92s propaganda is that he was the first one to use the machinery of government in a systematic fashion to control public opinion and that he used it positively to formulate favorable as well as to prevent unfavorable opinion. He was the forerunner of dictators none of whom would try to force a program without for which he did not have public support, perhaps gained by a total control of the information available to his subjects. \
Newspaper was one of Napoleon\'92s medium to put across his message. For religious news, he established Journal des Cures to replace all other religious papers, which he had suppressed. This is to present Napoleonic point of view. Fear of the press must have played a role in him for limiting the number of provincial papers, each supervised by the prefect of that department. \
Another negative means of controlling public opinion was censorship. There was censorship of letters, of the press, and of books. Publication was forbidden if the book was held to be contrary to the interest of peace, the state, and public order.\
Napoleon devised two means of communicating with his subjects; orders of the day and bulletin. Both dealt with military subjects, but they differed in their audiences. Bulletins were subjected to civilian population for which the purpose is to win public opinion; most orders of the day spoke to the army, but on occasion they were addressed to residents of newly conquered territories. \
The entire governmental machinery, civilian and military, was used to distribute propaganda materials. Napoleon is important as being the first dictator to devote such large share of his attention to public opinion. He spoke directly and frequently to his subjects. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\page \
\pard\pardeftab720\li1080\fi-720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\ls9\ilvl0\cf0 IX.	Catalyst of Nationalism\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Nationalism has been the dominant force of the 19\super th\nosupersub  and 29\super th\nosupersub  centuries. It is not a natural phenomenon but a cultivated sentiment which is the product of historical factors. It demands loyalty to the nation over other loyalty. Napoleon constantly referred France as \'93great nation\'94 rather than as \'93great country\'94. He looked on this new force primarily as something that would foster his own cause, first by overcoming factionalism within France. In order for France to remain great, it would need a united front of rulers and ruled; thus the role of nationalism became entwined with that of his dynasty.\
Accordingly, Germany furnished the prime example of a nationalism engendered by the Napoleonic period. It forged in a short period of time the most important non-French nationalism on the Continent. Napoleon refused to think there were people who felt themselves to be Germans. The organization of the Confederation of the Rhine unwittingly promoted a feeling of nationalism. The execution of a single, country man in 1806 contributed greatly to the feeling of oneness which transcended the bounds of individual German states. \
The writings of cultural nationalists cleared the path of activity of the political nationalists, for which they followed afterwards the footsteps of cultural ones. \
In short the war or conflict against Napoleon Bonaparte led to the development of the nationalism of the other nations and states. His territorial arrangements promoted the awakening of the nationalism. By reforms outside France Napoleon created political nationalism. The principles of the French Revolution produced elsewhere in Europe the same feelings of a national unity as in France. Changes that did much to facilitate nationalism included the creation of administrative hierarchies and the forming of citizen armies. Thus Napoleon\'92s greatest contribution to nationalism is a negative one. But this fact did not lessen his impact on European political life of the 19\super th\nosupersub  and 20\super th\nosupersub  centuries. \
\pard\pardeftab720\li1080\fi-720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\ls10\ilvl0\cf0 X.	The Legacy\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \'93The Napoleonic Revolution\'94. By the definition a revolution, is a successful movement, effecting far-reaching changes in a short space of time. Napoleon\'92s legacy of change had three components: first, those items he wanted to bequeath to posterity; second, the unforeseen outgrowths to his policies; and third, the changed conditions brought into being as a reaction against his regime.\
In his march across Europe, Napoleon called himself a \'93soldier of Revolution\'94. The reforms which had been instituted in France he carried it to every place where he obtained control. Napoleon reveals himself as a classicist, the man who believed in one universal standard. \
Napoleon aided the rise of the middle classes outside France. It is no accident that the bourgeoisie was most attached, and the nobility most hostile, to his regime. Introduction of the civil code, with its equal treatment of all individuals, and centralization of government with its implied elimination of feudal rights, contributed to this development. \
In social revolution, the improvement was in the legal status of the peasants, a natural corollary of the breakdown of feudal privileges. In some localities the nobility retained most of its rights, and the social reform remained incomplete. There was an improvement in the treatment of the Jews though not everywhere but they had the right to worshipped. \
Like most dictators, Napoleon frequently relied on public works to distract the people from politics and to leave lasting monuments to his regime. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Another legacy of Napoleon was the definition of the rules of literary property, equivalent to copyright law, by a decree. Napoleon also paid a little attention to public health.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 It is in the government and administration where Napoleon made the greatest impact; his concept of a modern state-centralized, acting directly on individuals without intermediaries, and treating these individuals as citizens rather than as subjects. In his centralization and in his police force introduced the military system into government. Though he did not initiate the use of the plebiscite, he used it frequently enough to set a precedent which was adopted by later rulers. \
Many of his institutions were retained: the University of France, the Concordat rule, the bank of France, his various legal codes, and most of all his methods of warfare. \
There are results to his rule that he undesired: the Europe-wide distrust of the French as a warlike people, and a desire to hold France in constant check; the Congress of Vienna could not find a lasting solution to the problems of Poland and Belgium, of Germany and Italy, because it disregarded the feeling of nationality which he stimulated by his reforms and territorial changes; and Britain was able to extend its colonial empire.\
Napoleon was the motive force in the making of History. Although a creature of circumstance to the extent that a career as his was possible only in a time of turmoil, Napoleon was far from being a mere creature of historical determinism. According to historians \'93the Napoleonic hallmark was enduringly stamped on France, on Europe, and beyond\'94. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Conclusion:\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Napoleon Bonaparte played a large role in European history. His contribution in the centralization of the government, military, trade, education, and even in religion have been effective until today in that short period of time. Some of the structures he had built are still visible. \
The book is enjoyable to read unlike other historical books. Its size is enough not to bore the readers at the same time providing enough information. But what I had observed is that some of the ideas were not arrange in an order where in the reader easily understand.\
What I like about the book is that it has footnotes which explain some of the terms and ideas introduced. I found it very helpful for readers not so well versed with the French Revolution. Also it offers suggestions of books about the ideas that are not so much related in the topic of the book but mentioned in the chapter so the readers can expand their knowledge.\
As I said in the latter part only some of the ideas or terms were explained, it will be more helpful if the reader has at least a little background about French Revolution. Maybe it is because the author focuses more on Napoleon and considering the number of pages it cannot accommodate if all terms and ideas will be explained. \
Another observation out from the book is that it is not the same with the usual content of the common books I had read. It is because it does not have some important parts of a book like the preface or foreword, even table of contents, index, glossary, and introduction. I found it unusual because most old books do really have complete parts.\
Overall the book is useful especially for students of history and enthusiast in history. Well-written and critical inventory of Napoleon\'92s work and lasting achievements.\
}